Update api reference docs for links: part 1 (#12819)
apollographql/apollo-client: docs/source/api/link/apollo-link-client-awareness.mdx

---
title: ClientAwarenessLink
description: API reference
---

<DocBlock
  canonicalReference="@apollo/client/link/client-awareness!ClientAwarenessLink:class"
  customOrder={["summary", "remarks", "example"]}
/>

## Configuring client awareness

> Client awareness can be configured in various ways throughout the client.

Author: ```suggestion
Client awareness can be configured in various ways in Apollo Client.
```

```ts
import { ApolloClient } from "@apollo/client";

new ApolloClient({
  clientAwareness: {
    name: "My Client",
    version: "my_client_version",
  },
  enhancedClientAwareness: {
    transport: "extensions",
  },
});
```

### Configuring with `HttpLink`

You can configure client awareness when initializing an `HttpLink` using the `clientAwareness` and `enhancedClientAwareness` options. These options take precedence over options provided to the `ApolloClient` constructor but can be overridden by [request context](./introduction#managing-context).

```ts
import { ApolloClient, HttpLink } from "@apollo/client";

const link = new HttpLink({
  clientAwareness: {
    name: "My Client",
    version: "my_client_version",
  },
  enhancedClientAwareness: {
    transport: "extensions",
  },
});

const client = new ApolloClient({
  link,
  // additional options
});
```

<Note>

If you are using `BaseHttpLink` and want client awareness functionality, you will need to add `ClientAwarenessLink` to your link chain manually. `HttpLink` includes `ClientAwarenessLink` by default.

</Note>

### Configuring with request context

> You can configure client awareness using request context. Provide the `clientAwareness` and `enhancedClientAwareness` fields in `context`. These values take precedence over all other configurations.

Reviewer: ECA can deliberately not be configured from context - it's all in or all out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring with request context

You can configure client awareness using request context. Provide the `clientAwareness` field in `context`. These values take precedence over all other configurations.

<Note>

The `enhancedClientAwareness` field is not supported in request context. This feature should either be fully opted in or out of.

</Note>
```

Author: Also updated the code block in 110a072d9d11c7d5f3966ed6d1ec9a3959ab770d to match
